=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

rspec - standalone test runner for Ruby RSpec test suites

=head1 SYNOPSYS

B<rspec> [I<options>] [I<files or directories>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Ruby script B<rspec> allows you to run tests written with RSpec, a testing
tool for Ruby, from the command line. When run without arguments, B<rspec>
finds automatically all the spec files of your projects, and runs them. It is
possible to restrict the tests to a subset by specifying the names of
particular spec files or by using some of the filtering options.

Various options can be passed to B<rspec> to modify the output of the tests, or
the way the tests are run.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-I> I<PATH>

Specify PATH to add to $LOAD_PATH (may be used more than once).

=item B<-r>, B<--require> I<PATH>

Require a file.

=item B<-O>, B<--options> I<PATH>

Specify the path to a custom options file.

=item B<--order> I<TYPE>[:I<SEED>]

Run examples by the specified order type. I<TYPE> can be either B<default>, for which 
files are ordered based on the underlying file system's order, or B<rand>, for which 
the order of files, groups and examples is randomized. B<random> is an alias
for B<rand>. A I<SEED> can be indicated for the B<random> type, e.g. B<--order>
B<random>:123

=item     B<--seed> I<SEED>

Equivalent of B<--order> B<rand>:I<SEED>.

=item B<-d>, B<--debugger>

Enable debugging.

=item B<--fail-fast>

Abort the run on first failure.

=item B<--failure-exit-code> I<CODE>

Override the exit code used when there are failing specs.

=item B<-X>, B<-->[B<no->]B<drb>

Run examples via DRb.

=item B<--drb-port> I<PORT>

Port to connect to the DRb server.

=item B<--init>

Initialize your project with RSpec.

=item B<--configure>

Deprecated. Use B<--init> instead.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-f>, B<--format> I<FORMATTER>

Choose a formatter. The various choices are [B<p>]B<rogress> (default - dots),
[B<d>]B<ocumentation> (group and example names), [B<h>]B<tml>, [B<t>]B<extmate>
or a custom formatter class name.

=item B<-o>, B<--out> I<FILE>

Write output to a file instead of STDOUT. This option applies
to the previously specified B<--format>, or the default format
if no format is specified.

=item B<-b>, B<--backtrace>

Enable full backtrace.

=item B<-c>, B<-->[B<no->]B<color>, B<-->[B<no->]B<colour>

Enable color in the output.

=item B<-p>, B<--profile>

Enable profiling of examples and list 10 slowest examples.

=back

=head1 FILTERING AND TAG OPTIONS

In addition to the following options for selecting specific files, groups,
or examples, you can select a single example by appending the line number to
the filename:

      rspec path/to/a_spec.rb:37

=over

=item B<-P>, B<--pattern> I<PATTERN>

Load files matching pattern (default: "spec/**/*_spec.rb").

=item B<-e>, B<--example> I<STRING>

Run examples whose full nested names include I<STRING>.

=item B<-l>, B<--line_number> I<LINE>

Specify line number of an example or group (may be used more than once).

=item B<-t>, B<--tag> I<TAG>[:I<VALUE>]

Run examples with the specified tag, or exclude examples by adding ~ before the
tag, e.g. ~slow.  I<TAG> is always converted to a symbol.

=item B<--default_path> I<PATH>

Set the default path where RSpec looks for examples (can be a path to a file or
a directory).

=back

=head1 UTILITY OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Display the version.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display a message similar to this manpage.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

This man page inspired by the help message of B<rspec>, has been written by
Cédric Boutillier for the Debian Project, but may be used by others.
